---
id: 2434
title: Apple Pay is market leader in contactless payments after one week
date: 2014-12-04T23:22:14+00:00
author: Jenxi
layout: post
guid: http://bakingpixel.com/?p=2434
permalink: /2014/12/04/apple-pay/
categories:
  - News
tags:
  - apple pay
  - google wallet
  - payment
---
John Gruber wrote about [Apple Pay being the market leader in contactless payments](http://daringfireball.net/linked/2014/10/28/cook-apple-pay).

> One week, and Apple is already the market leader — using the same systems that Google Wallet and whatever else is out there have been using for years. And in retail locations (as opposed to within apps) it only works with one-month-old iPhone 6 devices. 

Yes. Read that again and let it sink in.

> _It’s just marketing, and Apple’s ability to let their users know about new features like Apple Pay, and their ability to partner with a bunch of nationwide chains right off the bat._ There’s no “just” about any of that. Getting users to know about new features is not easy. Getting partners on board is not easy. Selling tens of millions of brand-new phones in the first month is not easy.
> 
> The proof of the pudding is in the eating. These NFC terminals have been in stores for years, and never became popular. Then Apple Pay went live one week ago, and the iPhone is already the market leader. 

Credit should be given where it&#8217;s due. It is a remarkable feat for Apple to pull this off.

To quote Apple CEO Tim Cook:

> Apple engineers platforms, devices, and services together. We do this so that we can create a seamless experience for our users that is unparalleled in the industry. This is something only Apple can do.